Answer these below Questions:




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?

JVM and javac


What is IDE?
A Java IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse IDE, Netbeans IDE, IntelliJ IDE

Explain the entire java life cycle.
IDE creates a source code which is then complied by the java Complier. 
It is complied into a .class file which can be loaded by the JVM and run on OS.

what is class?
A class is a blueprint for any object. A class is where we create out methods and object. 

What is object?

Object is an instantiated instance of the class.

What is the entry point of an application?

An entry point is where control enters a program or piece of code. In many programming languages, the main function is where a program starts its execution.

Why main is static?

JVM can not create any object before program runs. So, to run the program main should be invoked without creating any object. That's why main should be static

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

Abstract Class and Interface are core part of java programming language, abstract keyword is used to create an abstract class and it can be used with methods also whereas interface keyword is used to create interface and it can’t be used with methods.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?

what is Access Specifier?
 Java Access Specifiers  regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.These Specifiers determine whether a field or method in a class, can be used or invoked by another method in another class or sub-class. Access Specifiers can be used to restrict access. Access Specifiers are an integral part of object-oriented programming.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
oop-object oriented programming. 

Polymorphis- Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms.

encapsulation- Encapsulation can be described as a protective barrier that prevents the code and data being randomly accessed by other code defined outside the class. Access to the data and code is tightly controlled by an interface.

inheritance - Inheritance is a mechanism wherein a new class is derived from an existing class.

abstraction - Abstraction is the process of abstraction in Java is used to hide certain details and only show the essential features of the object.

? Name list of API that you have used so far.

Does java support multiple inheritance?
no.

What is method overloading and when it happens?

Method overloading deals with the notion of having two or more methods(functions) in the same class with the same name but different arguments.

What is method overriding and when it happens?
 
Method overriding means having two methods with the same arguments, but different implementation. One of them would exist in the Parent class (Base Class) while another will be in the derived class(Child Class).

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
constant you cannot change it. once you final initiate and declare a variable or method throughout the project/program you cannot change that variable or method. It stays unchanged throughout the whole course.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Finalizing the value of the variable so that no change can be made.
A final class cannot be subclassed.All methods in a final class are implicity final.
A final method cannot be overridden or hidden by subclass.
What is final, finally and finalize?
final:
	final is a keyword. The variable decleared as final should be
	initialized only once and cannot be changed. Java classes
	declared as final cannot be extended. Methods declared as final
	cannot be overridden.
	
finally:
	finally is a block. The finally block always executes when the
	try block exits. This ensures that the finally block is executed
	even if an unexpected exception occurs. But finally is useful for
	more than just exception handling - it allows the programmer to
	avoid having cleanup code accidentally bypassed by a return,
	continue, or break. 
	
finalize:
	finalize is a method. Before an object is garbage collected, the
	runtime system calls its finalize() method. we can write system
	resources release code in finalize() method before getting garbage
	collected.

What is a constructor ?
A constructor is a bit of code that allows you to create objects from a class

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Within an instance method or a constructor, this is a reference to the current object — the object whose method or constructor is being called. You can refer to any member of the current object from within an instance method or a constructor by using this.

What is JVM stand for ? 
Java virtual machine.
What version of java are you using? Java SE-1.8
What is JAR stand for ?
JAR stands for "Java ARchive". A JAR file is basically a zip-file which contains a couple of class files and a text file containing some meta information.

JAR files can be used to bundle a Java library containing many classes into a single file (which does not need to be unzipped in order to be used by a java programmer) or to bundle a Java application into a so-called executable JAR file (an executable JAR file is just a JAR file whose meta-information contains the information, which class is the main class, i.e. the class whose main method should be run to execute the application).
What is compile time and run time?
A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.
What is heap?

a heap is a specialized tree-based data structure that satisfies the heap property: If A is a parent node of B then the key of node A is ordered with respect to the key of node B with the same ordering applying across the heap.

How java manage it's memory?

